Oh looky here there are more than three
and a half billion smartphone users in
the world and some of them found some
impressive practices for their gadgets
I'm not talking about controlling
security cameras adjusting the
thermostat or finding their lost items
but something far more interesting in
2017 a German artist attended the made a
demonstration in Berlin there he saw
even though there were zero cars on the
road
Google Maps reported a huge traffic jam
in the streets he realized a bunch of
people in their smartphones tricked
Google into reporting the redline
traffic that was when an idea popped
into his head what if I tried it myself
he didn't need the people just
smartphones he spent two years
researching the nature of the maps and
their systems Google Maps worked by
providing real-time traffic data through
crowdsourcing they checked the location
of phones and the speed they're
traveling in 2020 he asked a few of his
friends to loan him their devices and
then got a bunch more from rental
companies in the end he had 99
smartphones on April 1st he announced
his experiment on social media where he
said he'd be attempting to turn a Green
Street red with his trolley wagon filled
with phones he turned on the phones
launched the Google Maps app and then
walked up and down the street carrying
them it took more than an hour for the
traffic to show then a long red line
appeared indicating that the street was
filled with slow-moving cars to their
Hey phones have inspired many
professionals one of them is a cyclist
from Canada he began cycling dozens of
miles a day to create doodles
using a GPS application when he was
cycling he bought a GPS tracking device
that would show the distance he covered
the speed and the elevation initially it
was only for training until he saw the
line when he uploaded his data online he
could see a thin red line that showed
everywhere he had been that's when the
idea popped in his head that his bicycle
was a paintbrush and the city his canvas
once he started cycling this process was
mapped and at the end of the journey
people online could see the big reveal
of the noodle he created his first
doodle was in 2015 on New Year's Day
when the cyclist went for a ride and
traced the words happy 2015 ever since
he's been riding dozens of miles to
create raccoons giraffes dinosaurs and
almost any cartoon or doodle you can
imagine his longest doodle took him more
than four hours of riding and more than
55 miles one day an illustrator from
London noticed something different while
he was walking through phone immersed
crowds he saw that pedestrians were
overly consumed by their phones that was
when an idea struck em he contacted one
of his friends who was a london-based
photographer and asked him to snap pics
of phone absorbed people the illustrator
then took the photographs and began
doodling little monster like creatures
coming out of their phones he wanted to
show the world the phone screen was like
a portal where the real and digital
world met though someone else thought
the opposite a photographer from America
also noticed that people were so
absorbed with their phones that he
decided to digitally take them away he
asked some couples and families to pose
with their phones naturally and then in
the picture he removed the phones using
a photo manipulation software then when
the pics came out you could only see
four people having breakfast around a
table holding up their hands and just
staring at them but an artist from
Taiwan put the mobile in automobile he
spent four years traveling the world
trying to collect any phone that was
thrown away he spent around $30,000 and
collected twenty five thousand ancient
cellphones then he took another four
months to transform them into a
life-size car he color-coordinated them
glued and nailed them on a wooden frame
all the black phones represented the
tires and the rainbow pattern was the
hood the artist wanted to send out a
message to reduce reuse and recycle
though some other phones took a
different route in their life they went
to space to test their abilities now
smart phones can neither make nor
receive calls in space but the question
a company wanted to answer was whether
they could
survive in 2013 the University of Surrey
decided to put that to the test they
were the first to launch a Nexus phone
into space as part of their nano
satellite named strand one the phone was
attached to one of the panels on the
satellite and both researchers and
engineers installed apps that they could
run during its mission space can get as
cold as minus 450 degrees Fahrenheit and
as hot as 250 degrees to keep it
protected and do the experiments
scientists installed some protection
gear the computer on the satellite could
check the battery's temperature and if
it got too cold the system would warm it
up in February of 2013 the company
launched the phone into orbit the minds
behind the experiment wanted to collect
data and take pictures but there was a
problem the satellite stopped
communicating with earth
two months later NASA sent three cell
phones on a rocket and they became the
first working phones in space in July of
the same year the Nexus phone the
University of Surrey sent finally turned
on but it had lost the victory spot a
country found a new use for their old
phones they turned them into a sport
Finland began the mobile throwing game
in 2000 and a few years later it became
an international sport the organiser was
a translation and interpretation company
that encouraged their staff to throw
away their frustrations using a mobile
fault
recycling centers came together to
collect the waste and sponsors gay
people phones to throw to raise
awareness about recycling them the event
takes place in August of every year and
the contestants have plenty of options
to choose from they can pick a phone
that weighs from 7.7 to 14 ounces and
the rules are straightforward people who
participate must stay within the
throwing area and the phone should land
in a marked section as of 2014 Therese
faraman halls the official world record
for throwing his phone just over 360
feet the length of a football field in
2014 two engineers constructed a machine
using Lego building blocks that can
solve a rubix
cube using a smartphone the device
analyzes the Scramble cube and
calculates the correct sequence then it
instructs a four-armed robot to get
solving the two engineers teamed up
before for a similar project and their
previous record was set in 2011 when
they created another robot to solve a
standard three by three by three rubik's
cube in just 5.2 seconds though in their
latest attempt the new machine solved it
in just 3.2 seconds too fast for the
human eye to understand what's going on
now through all of this I'm happy to
report that with all the creativity
around my smart phone is still my main
tool for ordering pizza
[Music]